The President:
Last week, when I ordered our
armed forces to protect the
Libyan people from the
brutality of Moammar Qaddafi,
I pledged to keep the American
people fully informed.
Since then, I've spoken about
the limited scope and specific
purpose of this mission.
Today, I can report that thanks
to the brave men and women in
uniform, we've made
important progress.
As Commander-in-Chief, I face no
greater decision than sending
our military men and
women into harm's way.
And the United States
should not -- and cannot --
intervene every time there's a
crisis somewhere in the world.
But I firmly believe that when
innocent people are being
brutalized; when someone like
Qaddafi threatens a bloodbath
that could destabilize
an entire region;
and when the international
community is prepared to come
together to save many
thousands of lives --
then it's in our national
interest to act.
And it's our responsibility.
This is one of those times.
Our military mission in
Libya is clear and focused.
Along with our
allies and partners,
we're enforcing the mandate of
the United Nations Security Council.
We're protecting the Libyan
people from Qaddafi's forces.
And we've put in place a no
fly zone and other measures to
prevent further atrocities.
We're succeeding in our mission.
We've taken out
Libya's air defenses.
Qaddafi's forces are no longer
advancing across Libya.
In places like Benghazi, a city
of some 700,000 that Qaddafi
threatened to show "no mercy,"
his forces have been pushed back.
So make no mistake,
because we acted quickly,
a humanitarian catastrophe has
been avoided and the lives of
countless civilians -- innocent
men, women and children --
have been saved.
As I pledged at the outset, the role
of American forces has been limited.
We're not putting any
ground forces into Libya.
Our military has provided unique
capabilities at the beginning,
but this is now a broad,
international effort.
Our allies and partners are
enforcing the no fly zone over
Libya and the arms
embargo at sea.
Key Arab partners like Qatar and
the United Arab Emirates have
committed aircraft.
And as agreed this week,
responsibility for this
operation is being transferred
from the United States to our
NATO allies and partners.
This is how the international
community should work --
more nations, not just
the United States,
bearing the responsibility and
cost of upholding peace and security.
This military effort is part of
our larger strategy to support
the Libyan people and hold the
Qaddafi regime accountable.
Together with the
international community,
we're delivering urgent
humanitarian assistance.
We're offering support
to the Libyan opposition.
We've frozen tens of billions of
dollars of Qaddafi's assets that
can help meet the needs and
aspirations of the Libyan people.
And every day, the pressure on
Qaddafi and his regime is increasing.
Our message is clear
and unwavering.
Qaddafi's attacks against
civilians must stop.
His forces must pull back.
Humanitarian assistance must be
allowed to reach those in need.
Those responsible for violence
must be held accountable.
Moammar Qaddafi has lost the
confidence of his people and the
legitimacy to rule, and the
aspirations of the Libyan people
must be realized.
In recent days, we've heard the
voices of Libyans expressing
their gratitude
for this mission.
"You saved our lives,"
said one Libyan.
Said another, "Today,
there is hope."
Every American can be proud of
the lives we've saved in Libya
and of the service of our men
and women in uniform who once
again have stood up for our
interests and our ideals.
And people in Libya and around
the world are seeing that the
United States of America stands
with those who hope for a future
where they can determine
their own destiny.